README.md, before:

# Learn Security

![Topics](topics.png)

## Concepts

- Hash
- Salt
- Hmac
- Symmetric Encryption
- Asymmetric Encryption
- Signing

## Security Services

### Message Confidentiality

To achieve message confidentiality we can either use symmetric-key or asymmetric-key cryptography.

For long messages symmetric-key cryptography is much more efficient than the asymmetric-key cryptography. Mostly only for the symmetric key exchange we use asymmetric key cryptography.

### Message Integrity

To achieve message integrity we can use hash function to create a compressed image of the message. So the receiver can create the hash again of the message and compare it with the received hash to check if there is any change in the message.

Digital signature can also provide message integrity.

### Message Authentication

Two methods to achieve message authentication.

1. keyed hash function to create a message digest which is also known as HMAC(Hash Message Authentication Code).
2. Digital Signature which is internally using asymmetric key cryptography.

### Message Nonrepudiation

Can be achieve using trusted third party.

### Entity Authentication

Entity authentication is a technique designed to let one party prove the identity of the another party. Entity can be a person, a process, a client or a server.

The entity whose authenticity needs to be proved is called claimant.

The Party that tries to prove the identity of the claimant is called verifier.

## References

- Data Communications and Networking By Behrouz A.Forouzan
- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NuyzuNBFWxQ

Commit message:

update readme | add info about key management

README.md, after:

# Learn Security

![Topics](topics.png)

## Concepts

- Hash
- Salt
- Hmac
- Symmetric Encryption
- Asymmetric Encryption
- Signing

## Security Services

### Message Confidentiality

To achieve message confidentiality we can either use symmetric-key or asymmetric-key cryptography.

For long messages symmetric-key cryptography is much more efficient than the asymmetric-key cryptography. Mostly only for the symmetric key exchange we use asymmetric key cryptography.

### Message Integrity

To achieve message integrity we can use hash function to create a compressed image of the message. So the receiver can create the hash again of the message and compare it with the received hash to check if there is any change in the message.

Digital signature can also provide message integrity.

### Message Authentication

Two methods to achieve message authentication.

1. keyed hash function to create a message digest which is also known as HMAC(Hash Message Authentication Code).
2. Digital Signature which is internally using asymmetric key cryptography.

### Message Nonrepudiation

Can be achieve using trusted third party.

### Entity Authentication

Entity authentication is a technique designed to let one party prove the identity of the another party. Entity can be a person, a process, a client or a server.

The entity whose authenticity needs to be proved is called claimant.

The Party that tries to prove the identity of the claimant is called verifier.

Can be done by Challenge-Response method which can be done by either using symmetric-key cipher,asymmetric-key cipher, keyed-hash function or digital signature.

## Key Management

How secret keys in symmetric cryptography and public keys in asymmetric cryptography are distributed and maintained.

### Symmetric-key Distribution

- Key Distribution Center (KDC) or trusted party
  - Kerberos - Is an authentication protocol and KDC

## References

- Data Communications and Networking By Behrouz A.Forouzan
- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NuyzuNBFWxQ
